# What is ExA-SPIM
The ExA-SPIM (expansion assisted selective plane illumination microscope) aims to image large expanded mammalian brain tissue for the purpose of full neuron reconstruction. 
It uses an imaging objective and detector from the electronics metrology industry which gives it a relatively high numerical aperture (NA) = 0.305, while having a large field of view (10.6x8.0mm<sup>2</sup> and working distance (35mm).

## ExA-SPIM Beta
The first design used an off-the-shelf illumination objective that was poorly optimized for the system and led to a large degree of field curvature in the excitation light sheet. The new system has a custom illumination objective that is able to deliver a ~12mm light sheet while also being highly corrected for field curvature (~50 µm). The previous system also used a cylindrical lens to form the light sheet, which lead to non-uniform intensity profile across the field of view (~60% intensity at the field edges). The use of a cylindrical lens also resulted in reduced power efficiency, as only the central portion of the Gaussian light sheet was used to excite the sample. To address this issue, we designed a custom aspherical cylindrical lens (i.e. Powell lens) that spreads the incoming gaussian beam into a more uniform excitation intensity profile. The use of the custom excitation objective and Powell lens also rid the need for additional relay lenses that were part of the original prototype design. Although the brain samples are cleared, refractive-index matched, and expanded, there is still light scattering and refraction throughout the large centimeter-scale tissue volume. As a result, image degradation with increasing imaging depth is unavoidable. Therefore, our redesigned system also incorporates the option for dual-sided illumination, as well as an added rotation stage to the sample arm to allow for multi-view detection. All of these engineering improvements to the system, when combined, enable the reengineered ExA-SPIM system to image cleared and expanded mouse brains with much less aberration and variations in illumination intensity accross the field of view.

## Wiki
Please use this [wiki](https://github.com/KaelinWulf/ExA-SPIM_2.0_Documentation/wiki) for all information on preparing, building, setting up, and using the ExA-SPIM 2.0
